Lipschitz-continuous functions between metric spaces (#1417)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/metric-spaces/lipschitz-functions-metric-spaces.lagda.md

open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.binary-transport
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.existential-quantification
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.inhabited-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.sequences
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.isometries-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.total-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.uniformly-continuous-functions-metric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

> A positive rational `α : ℚ⁺` is a
> {{#concept "Lipschitz constant" Disambiguation="of a function between metric spaces" Agda=lipschitz-constant-function-Metric-Space}}
> of a [function](metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces.md) `f : A → B` between
> [metric spaces](metric-spaces.metric-spaces.md) if for any `x y : A`, if `d` is
> an upper bound of the distance between `x` and `y` in `A`, `α * d` is an upper
> bound on the distance between `f x` and `f y` in `B`; in that case, `f` is
> called an **α-Lipschitz** function. A function which admits a Lipschitz constant
> is called a
> {{#concept "Lipschitz function" Disambiguation="between metric spaces" WD="Lipschitz function" WDID=Q652707 Agda=lipschitz-function-Metric-Space}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A positive rational `α : ℚ⁺` is a
{{#concept "Lipschitz constant" Disambiguation="of a function between metric spaces" Agda=lipschitz-constant-function-Metric-Space}}
of a [function](metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces.md) `f : A → B` between
[metric spaces](metric-spaces.metric-spaces.md) if for any `x y : A`, if `d` is
an upper bound of the distance between `x` and `y` in `A`, `α * d` is an upper
bound on the distance between `f x` and `f y` in `B`. If `α` is a Lipschitz
constant for `f`, then `f` is called an **α-Lipschitz** function. A function
that admits a Lipschitz constant is called a
{{#concept "Lipschitz function" Disambiguation="between metric spaces" WD="Lipschitz function" WDID=Q652707 Agda=lipschitz-function-Metric-Space}}.
```

open import foundation.functoriality-dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.inhabited-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.sequences
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import logic.functoriality-existential-quantification

open import metric-spaces.elements-at-bounded-distance-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.isometries-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.uniformly-continuous-functions-metric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

A
[positive rational number](elementary-number-theory.positive-rational-numbers.md)
`α : ℚ⁺` is a
{{#concept "Lipschitz constant" Disambiguation="of a function between metric spaces" Agda=lipschitz-constant-function-Metric-Space}}

> of a [function](metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces.md) `f : A → B` between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for a [function](metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces.md) `f : A → B` between
```

open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.inhabited-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.sequences
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.isometries-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.neighbors-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.short-functions-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.total-metric-spaces
open import metric-spaces.uniformly-continuous-functions-metric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

A positive rational `α : ℚ⁺` is a
{{#concept "Lipschitz constant" Disambiguation="of a function between metric spaces" Agda=lipschitz-constant-function-Metric-Space}}
of a [function](metric-spaces.functions-metric-spaces.md) `f : A → B` between
[metric spaces](metric-spaces.metric-spaces.md) if for any `x y : A`, if `d` is

> an upper bound of the distance between `x` and `y` in `A`, `α * d` is an upper
> bound on the distance between `f x` and `f y` in `B`. If `α` is a Lipschitz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an upper bound of the distance between `x` and `y` in `A`, then `α * d` is an upper
bound on the distance between `f x` and `f y` in `B`. If `α` is a Lipschitz
```

      map-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space A B f) ,
    ( comp-is-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space
      ( A)
      ( B)
      ( C)
      ( map-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space B C g)
      ( map-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space A B f)
      ( is-lipschitz-map-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space B C g)
      ( is-lipschitz-map-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space A B f))
```

### Being a Lipschitz map is homotopy invariant

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l1' l2' : Level}
  (A : Metric-Space l1 l2) (B : Metric-Space l1' l2')
  (f g : map-type-Metric-Space A B)
  (f~g : f ~ g)
  where

  lipschitz-constant-htpy-function-Metric-Space :
    lipschitz-constant-function-Metric-Space A B f →
    lipschitz-constant-function-Metric-Space A B g
  lipschitz-constant-htpy-function-Metric-Space =
    tot
      ( λ α H d x y N →
        binary-tr
          ( neighborhood-Metric-Space B (α *ℚ⁺ d))
          ( f~g x)
          ( f~g y)
          ( H d x y N))

  is-lipschitz-htpy-function-Metric-Space :
    is-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space A B f →
    is-lipschitz-function-Metric-Space A B g
  is-lipschitz-htpy-function-Metric-Space =
    map-is-inhabited lipschitz-constant-htpy-function-Metric-Space
```

> ### Lipschitz maps perserve neighbors in metric spaces

Reviewer: Is this not a property of continuous functions in general?

Author: mmh. I don't think it is (with our current terminology). I understand why you'd expect this. Maybe it's a point against the name "neighbors" in metric spaces.
